# Highlights from Today's Coronavirus Articles

It is currently **Wednesday, Apr 1 2020 (12:15 PM)**.

Here are some highlights I've compiled from articles (mostly in the past 24 hours) about coronavirus and some comments on them.

## Good news first: "In the last 2 weeks, the Coronavirus emergency room in Parma (Italy) had over 50 patients. Today, for the first time since it was set up, the room is empty"

[Original article, la Repubblica Parma](https://parma.repubblica.it/cronaca/2020/03/31/foto/coronavirus_dopo_settimane_il_pronto_soccorso_covid_e_vuoto_-_foto-252755699/1/#1)

`/u/sewermaid85` from reddit, comments:

> Can’t tell you how happy I am to see these reports from Italy.
>
> Really looked dire for weeks.

`/u/Layneeeee` from reddit, replies:

> As an italian, the last week was really tough. The numbers were not slowing down and it seemed like our measures weren't working at all. Luckily after the peak things started to get better, and although we still have too many daily deaths, people are more optimistic about the situation and all the doctors and medical staff can finally take a breath

## Most relevant to Asians: "FBI says Texas stabbing that targeted Asian-American family was hate crime fueled by coronavirus fears"

[Original article, The Dallas Morning News](https://www.dallasnews.com/news/crime/2020/04/01/fbi-says-texas-stabbing-that-targeted-asian-american-family-was-hate-crime-fueled-by-coronavirus-fears/)

Quotes:

> Two children, ages 2 and 6, were among the victims attacked at a Sam’s Club in Midland
>
> An incident in Midland earlier this month in which a man stabbed several members of an Asian-American family, apparently because of fears about the coronavirus, has been listed as a hate crime.
> 
> The incident, which took place March 14 at a Sam’s Club and involved two children ages 2 and 6, was among a swell of hate crimes against Asian-Americans across the country noted in an FBI report recently obtained by ABC News.
> 
> The suspect indicated he attacked the family “because he thought the family was Chinese and infecting people with the coronavirus,” the network quoted the intelligence report as saying.
> 
> Jose L. Gomez III, 19, was charged with three counts of attempted capital murder and aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, the Midland Reporter-Telegram said.
> 
> According to the analysis ABC obtained, **the FBI thinks such crimes probably “will surge across the United States”** as the contagion spreads, “endangering Asian-American communities. ... A portion of the U.S. public will associate COVID-19 with China and Asian-American populations.”

## Case projections: "US is set to have 200,000 cases today, just 5 days after its 100,000th case and 15 after its 10,000th."

[Covidgraph.com](https://covidgraph.com/#curve)

[Source: John Hopkins CSSE.](https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html)

This website shows the epidemiologic curve since 10,000 cases, which shows that the U.S. curve is steeper than curves of other (European) countries, and still rising.

`/u/FrancescoTo` (original poster of these data, and creator of the graph):

> You can also see on the graph that Italy took 21 days to reach 100k cases, and Spain is set to reach 100,000 today (17th day).

`/u/tootapple` in response:

> But isn’t that how reported testing works? It’s hard to compare to other countries give the difference in population and major differences in the way tests have been administered. It’s not really apples to apples and we shouldn’t gauge ourselves against other countries in that way.

`/u/FrancescoTo` in response:

> Well, the USA are testing ~100,000 per day, which for a population of 327 millions gives around 305 tests/million. For comparison, Italy is testing about 500/million/day, and Switzerland triple that iirc.

## "Harvard expert: US would have a 'very different situation' with earlier testing, lockdowns"

[Original article, The Hill](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/490534-harvard-expert-we-clearly-would-have-had-a-very-different-situation)

Summarizing quotes:

> The director of the Harvard Global Health Institute on Wednesday said that if earlier coronavirus testing and lockdowns had taken place in the United States, "we clearly would have had a different situation.”
>
> Ashish Jha, the institute's director, praised White House task force members Anthony Fauci, an epidemiologist who leads the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Deborah Birx, a physician leading the task force's coronavirus response, in an appearance on CNN’s “New Day” and said he had “no interest in contradicting them.” 
> 
> “But I don’t know any public health expert who does not believe that if we had gotten our testing together, if we had gotten our hospitals ready, if we had communicated and gotten a lot of our lockdown orders going much earlier," we would have had "a different situation," he said. 
> 
>
> "We clearly would have," he added.

## "Officers Disperse Birthday Party Crowd Amid COVID-19 Pandemic In Los Angeles"

[Original article, SDGLN.com](https://sdgln.com/newshealth-wellness-sports/2020/03/31/officers-disperse-birthday-party-crowd-amid-covid-19-pandemic)

Summarizing quotes:

> A birthday party for a little girl was dispersed by police amid the state's 'stay at home' order enacted to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, Saturday evening.
>
> Several partygoers became irate prompting officers to request additional assistance.

People really feel the need to be social in person, don't they? Even if it's illegal, stupid, and selfish.

## "If You Have Coronavirus Symptoms, Assume You Have the Illness, Even if You Test Negative"

[Original article, New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/well/live/coronavirus-symptoms-tests-false-negative.html?smid=re-share)

> Just because a coronavirus test says you don’t have the virus doesn’t mean you aren’t infected — or infectious.

Even though we already knew that, we can feel safer knowing that more people will know this.

## "Bill Gates calls for nationwide shutdown: 'Shutdown anywhere means shutdown everywhere'"

[Original article, The Hill](https://thehill.com/policy/technology/490523-bill-gates-calls-for-nationwide-shutdown-shutdown-anywhere-means-shutdown)

It is probably best to hear it straight from Bill Gates itself, as 3.1k redditors also agree. Full text of [Gates's op-ed from Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/bill-gates-heres-how-to-make-up-for-lost-time-on-covid-19/2020/03/31/ab5c3cf2-738c-11ea-85cb-8670579b863d_story.html). I've **bolded** key takeaways for a skim:

> There’s no question the United States missed the opportunity to get ahead of the novel coronavirus. But **the window for making important decisions hasn’t closed.** The choices we and our leaders make now will have an enormous impact on **how soon case numbers start to go down, how long the economy remains shut down** and **how many Americans will have to bury a loved one because of covid-19.**
> 
> Through my work with the Gates Foundation, I’ve spoken with **experts and leaders in Washington and across the country**. It’s become clear to me that we must take **three steps.**
> 
> **First, we need a consistent nationwide approach to shutting down.** Despite urging from public health experts, some states and counties haven’t shut down completely. **In some states, beaches are still open; in others, restaurants still serve sit-down meals.**
>
> **This is a recipe for disaster. Because people can travel freely across state lines, so can the virus.** The country’s leaders need to be clear: **Shutdown anywhere means shutdown everywhere.** Until the case numbers start to go down across America — which could take 10 weeks or more — no one can continue business as usual or relax the shutdown. Any confusion about this point will only extend the economic pain, raise the odds that the virus will return, and cause more deaths.
>
> **Second, the federal government needs to step up on testing**. Far more tests should be made available. We should also aggregate the results so we can quickly identify potential volunteers for clinical trials and know with confidence when it’s time to return to normal. There are good examples to follow: New York state recently expanded its capacity to up to more than 20,000 tests per day.
> 
> There’s also been some progress on **more efficient testing methods, such as the self-swab** developed by the Seattle Coronavirus Assessment Network, which **allows patients to take a sample themselves without possibly exposing a health worker**. I hope this and other innovations in testing are scaled up across the country soon.
> 
> Even so, **demand for tests will probably exceed the supply for some time**, and right now, there’s little rhyme or reason to who gets the few that are available. As a result, we don’t have a good handle on how many cases there are or where the virus is likely headed next, and it will be hard to know if it rebounds later. And because of the backlog of samples, it can take seven days for results to arrive when we need them within 24 hours.
>
> **This is why the country needs clear priorities for who is tested.** **First on the list** should be people in essential roles such as **health-care workers and first responders**, followed by **highly symptomatic people** who are most at risk of becoming seriously ill and those who are likely to have been exposed.
> 
> The same goes for masks and ventilators. **Forcing 50 governors to compete for lifesaving equipment** — and hospitals to pay exorbitant prices for it — **only makes matters worse.**
> 
> **Finally, we need a data-based approach to developing treatments and a vaccine.** Scientists are working full speed on both; in the meantime, leaders can help by not stoking rumors or panic buying. Long before the drug hydroxychloroquine was approved as an emergency treatment for covid-19, people started hoarding it, making it hard to find for lupus patients who need it to survive.
> 
> We should stick with the process that works: Run rapid trials involving various candidates and inform the public when the results are in. Once we have a safe and effective treatment, we’ll need to ensure that the first doses go to the people who need them most.
> 
> To bring the disease to an end, we’ll need a **safe and effective vaccine.** If we do everything right, **we could have one in less than 18 months — about the fastest a vaccine has ever been developed.** But creating a vaccine is only half the battle. To protect Americans and people around the world, we’ll need to manufacture billions of doses. (Without a vaccine, developing countries are at even greater risk than wealthy ones, because it’s even harder for them to do physical distancing and shutdowns.)
> 
> **We can start now by building the facilities where these vaccines will be made.** Because many of the top candidates are made using unique equipment, we’ll have to build facilities for each of them, knowing that some won’t get used. Private companies can’t take that kind of risk, but the federal government can. It’s a great sign that the administration made deals this week with at least two companies to prepare for vaccine manufacturing. I hope more deals will follow.
> 
> In 2015, I urged world leaders in a TED talk to prepare for a pandemic the same way they prepare for war — by running simulations to find the cracks in the system. As we’ve seen this year, we have a long way to go. But I still believe that if we make the right decisions now, informed by science, data and the experience of medical professionals, we can save lives and get the country back to work.
