# Highlights from Today's Coronavirus Articles

It is currently **Thursday, April 2, 2020 (11:34 AM)**.

Here are some highlights I've compiled from articles (mostly in the past 24 hours) about coronavirus and some comments on them. Huge thanks to reddit.

## Good news first: "USA: Kansas City's WWI Museum is avoiding layoffs by giving employees thousands of pages from its archives to digitize"

[Original article, CNN](https://edition.cnn.com/style/article/digitize-wwi-documents-museum-trnd/index.html)

> A museum in Kansas City, Missouri is avoiding laying off its employees during the coronavirus pandemic by giving some of them a big project to take on.
> 
> The National WWI Museum and Memorial said it is moving 10 of its employees to a team dedicated to digitizing thousands of letters, diaries and journals.
> 
> Three of the 40 people who work at the museum were already working on digitizing and transcribing collection materials from World War I, Mike Vietti, Director of Marketing, Communications and Guest Services at the National WWI Museum and Memorial told CNN.
>
> Now it will be a bigger effort, **one that will also prevent people from losing their jobs.**

**This museum is a shining example of a positive mindset for taking care of employees. More businesses can adopt this willingness to avoid layoffs.**

## Experts tell White House coronavirus can spread through talking or even just breathing

[Original article, CNN](https://www.cnn.com/world/live-news/coronavirus-pandemic-04-02-20-intl/h_1ddd8f1a1526b889df5a51281b593c4c)

> A prestigious scientific panel told the White House last night that research shows **coronavirus can be spread not just by sneezes or coughs, but also just by talking, or possibly even just breathing.**
>
> > "While the current [coronavirus] specific research is limited, **the results of available studies are consistent with aerosolization of virus from normal breathing**," according to the letter, written by Dr. Harvey Fineberg, chairman of the National Academy of Sciences Standing Committee on Emerging Infectious Diseases and 21st Century Health Threats. 

`/u/TheWierdGuy` comments:

> How the fuck else did they think asymptomatic people spread the virus?

`/u/keepsake4` comments:

> Well well well. Welcome to January 2020.
>
> They are building up to the mask U-turn.

**Hopefully, social stigma surrounding mask-wearing is eventually eradicated.**

## "Georgia's Governor Says He Didn't Know People Could Spread Covid-19 Without Symptoms"

[Original article, Gizmodo](https://gizmodo.com/georgias-idiot-governor-says-he-didnt-know-people-could-1842636191)

Summarizing quote:

> Georgia's Governor Brian Kemp gave a press conference on Wednesday, announcing a new shelter-in-place order that's been long overdue. But **Kemp also admitted something that should terrify every person living in and around Georgia: Kemp claims he didn't know until this week that the new coronavirus could be spread by people who aren't showing symptoms of covid-19.**

`/u/Shurglife` comments:

> He should quit his job. He's honestly too stupid to hold such a position.

`/u/Jasink1987` comments:

> You have got to be straight up living under a rock to not know this. He knew and he didn't care. Fucking asshole.

**It's unfortunate that people who have the power and responsibility to save human lives can be rather ignorant, to say the least.**

## "China Concealed Extent of Virus Outbreak, U.S. Intelligence Says"

[Original article, Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-01/china-concealed-extent-of-virus-outbreak-u-s-intelligence-says)

**Many of us already knew about this (that China concealed the extent of the outbreak), but U.S. intelligence backing the claim gives it more credibility.**

Notable quotes:

> China has concealed the extent of the coronavirus outbreak in its country, under-reporting both total cases and deaths it's suffered from the disease, the U.S. intelligence community concluded in a classified report to the White House, according to three U.S. officials.
> 
> The officials asked not to be identified because the report is secret, and they declined to detail its contents. But the thrust, they said, is that **China's public reporting on cases and deaths is intentionally incomplete.** Two of the officials said the report concludes that **China's numbers are fake.**

`/u/Piepally` comments:

> Extensive surveillance by the CIA confirms that bears do indeed shit in the woods.

## "Sen. Kelly Loeffler sold at least $18 million more in stocks before the coronavirus crash than previously reported"

[Original article, Vox](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2020/4/1/21202900/kelly-loeffler-stock-sales-coronavirus-pandemic)

Summarizing quote: 

> Sen. Kelly Loeffler (R-GA) benefited from stock trades worth millions of dollars shortly before the general public was alerted to the severity of the Covid-19 crisis, selling off shares in industries that have been adversely affected by the coronavirus pandemic and buying shares of companies that have benefited, according to an Atlanta Journal-Constitution (AJC) report published late Tuesday.

**Some people just think they are above the law. *Unfortunately, some of those people might actually be right.*** And notable:

> Four days after the briefing (and her acquisition of Citrix stocks), Loeffler accused Democrats of misleading the American public about the Trump administration's response to the outbreak for political gain.

**Talk about hypocrisy (I suppose my assumption here is that more money -> more political power).**

## "Why is New Orleans' coronavirus death rate seven times New York's? Obesity is a factor"

[Original article, Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-new-orleans/why-is-new-orleans-coronavirus-death-rate-seven-times-new-yorks-obesity-is-a-factor-idUSKBN21K1B0?utm_source=reddit.com)

> New Orleans residents suffer from obesity, diabetes and hypertension at rates higher than the national average, conditions that doctors and public health officials say can make patients more vulnerable to COVID-19, the highly contagious respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus.
> 
> Some 97% of those killed by COVID-19 in Louisiana had a preexisting condition, according to the state health department. Diabetes was seen in 40% of the deaths, obesity in 25%, chronic kidney disease in 23% and cardiac problems in 21%. 

**Sounds like doing your best to stay healthy is paramount, especially when a disease like COVID-19 hits.**

## "Zoom's security and privacy problems are snowballing"

[Original article, Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/zoom-facing-multiple-reported-security-issues-amid-coronavirus-crisis-2020-4?r=US&IR=T&utm_source=reddit.com)

Summarizing bullet points from the article itself:

> The videoconferencing service Zoom faces multiple reported security issues as both use and scrutiny increase.
> 
> In a 48-hour period, reports surfaced that Zoom didn't use end-to-end encryption for its video meetings and had leaked thousands of email addresses to strangers.
> 
> Compounding its security woes, the Windows version of Zoom is reportedly vulnerable to attackers who could send malicious links to users' chat interfaces and gain access to their email passwords.

**Stay safe out there. Don't click on any weird links in Zoom. [How to Recognize and Avoid Phishing ScamsHow to Recognize and Avoid Phishing Scams, from the FTC](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/how-recognize-and-avoid-phishing-scams)**
