# Highlights from Today's Coronavirus Articles

**UPDATE: 1:34 PM, I added two new articles that I missed! One from today, one from earlier this week.**

It is currently **Friday, April 3, 2020 (10:36 AM)**.

Here are some highlights I've compiled from articles (mostly in the past 24 hours) about coronavirus and some comments on them. Huge thanks to reddit.


## Good news first: "HBO Will Stream 500 Hours of Free Programming, Including Full Seasons of 'Veep,' 'The Sopranos,' 'Silicon Valley'"

[Original article, Variety](https://variety.com/2020/digital/news/hbo-free-streaming-500-hours-sopranos-veep-wire-1234569585/)

**At least we'll have more ways to entertain ourselves while quarantined!**

Summarizing quote:

> HBO is unlocking its biggest trove of free programming ever - in a goodwill gesture as people look for a diversion during the COVID-19 pandemic.
> 
> The WarnerMedia-owned premium cabler is making almost 500 hours of programming available to stream for free (without ads) for a limited time on HBO Now and HBO Go services without a subscription, starting this Friday, April 3.
> 
> The list of free programming includes every episode of nine HBO series: "The Sopranos," "Veep," "Succession," "Six Feet Under," "The Wire," "Ballers," "Barry," "Silicon Valley" and "True Blood."

`/u/BunyipPouch` comments:

> Awesome move by HBO. There's some quality stuff included.

## "Bay Area Residents Recommended to Wear Cloth Face Coverings When Outside"

[Original article, NBC Bay Area](https://www.nbcbayarea.com/news/coronavirus/bay-area-residents-recommended-to-wear-cloth-face-coverings-when-outside/2266417/) **Added 1:34pm!**

**Public health officials in the Bay Area are recommending people to wear fabric masks (not medical masks, since they should be given to medical workers).**

Summarizing quotes:

> The public is advised to wear fabric masks instead of medical masks, which should be saved for health care workers
>
> Cover your nose and mouth with a cloth face covering when leaving home from now on during the coronavirus pandemic. That's the [recommendation issued Thursday](https://cmo.smcgov.org/sites/cmo.smcgov.org/files/New%20Bay%20Area%20Public%20Health%20Recommendation%20to%20Cover%20the%20Face.pdf) by Bay Area health officials.
>
> **Health officials do not recommend that people wear medical masks, such as N-95 masks or surgical masks. Those masks are in short supply and need to be preserved for health care workers and first responders.**

## "Diagnosed with the coronavirus, 32-year-old L.A. woman dies next day"

[Original article, LA Times](https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-04-02/salvadoran-woman-dies-quickly-from-coronavirus)

**My sincerest condolences. Seems like even the young are at high risk of dying from this.**

Notable quote:

> Her brother said that she was **diagnosed with COVID-19 one day last week and died the next.**
> 
> "She began by complaining about body aches, that she felt a heaviness and fatigue," said Cesar Cortez in an interview with the television station.
> 
> He said his sister showed up to work on March 23, but shortly after began to [feel symptoms that included body pain and chills](https://www.latimes.com/science/story/2020-03-25/covid-19-symptoms-how-can-i-tell-if-ive-got-the-coronavirus).
> 
> Cortez said the family was surprised by how quickly she went from feeling ill to dying. **She was hospitalized on Friday, he said, and died the very next day.**

`/u/miscun` comments:

> Her name was Jessica Beatriz Cortez.
> 
> Very sorry for this family's loss.

`/u/CapinWinky` comments:

> The message in the USA is don't go to the doctor and don't try to get tested until you are on death's door because they are reserving care and testing for the worst cases. That is a big reason why people are showing up and dying the next day, they actually held out until they were very near death.

## "Fauci: 'I don't understand why' every state hasn't issued stay-at-home orders"

[Original article, CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/02/politics/fauci-stay-home-coronavirus-states-cnntv/index.html)

**It's alarming how many people in power aren't on board with stay-at-home orders, meaning that large numbers of people are still spreading COVID-19 daily.**

**It's also alarming the lack of understanding and *lack of morality* our leaders have about the situation: yes, while the economy will be bad if people stay at home, it will be *worse* if people *don't* stay at home, because if they *don't* stay at home, *people will die*. Apparently, it *also* needs to be spelled out that people dying is bad for your economy (*dead people can't work*) because talking in economic terms is the only way for them to understand. By allowing people to continue life as normal, you're getting the *worst of both worlds*. Huge credit to [John Oliver for outlining this much more eloquently than I ever could](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ElIf2DBrWzU).**

Summarizing quote:

> The nation's top infectious disease expert said Thursday he doesn't understand why every state hasn't issued stay-at-home orders as novel coronavirus cases continue to surge across the US.
>
> "I don't understand why that's not happening," Dr. Anthony Fauci told CNN's Anderson Cooper during CNN's coronavirus town hall.

And:

> Fauci's message appears to be at odds with President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly said that he doesn't think a nationwide stay-at-home order is necessary, stressing the need for flexibility between different states.
> 
> "You have to look -- you have to give a little flexibility," Trump said at Wednesday's White House press briefing. "If you have a state in the Midwest, or if Alaska, for example, doesn't have a problem, it's awfully tough to say, 'close it down.' We have to have a little bit of flexibility."

`/u/lickybumbum69420` comments:

> I live in Utah and our technical college is still running classes down the street from me like nothing is happening.

`/u/martindavidartstar` comments:

> A governor from Georgia, I think. Correct me if I'm wrong that he .just said. "just found out in the last 24 hours that the virus is contagious before symptoms" dam man we have known that since January

## "Fewer than half of Americans believe their daily routine will return to normal by June, as fears over coronavirus rise"

[Original article, ABC News](https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/fewer-half-americans-daily-routine-return-normal-june/story?id=69940187)

**It's definitely sad that we can't make definite plans for the future, but kudos to the American people for realizing the severity of the situation.**

Summarizing quote:

>  Fewer than half of Americans believe their regular daily routine will return to normal by June 1 amid sharply rising concerns over contracting the novel coronavirus according to a new ABC News/Ipsos poll released Friday.
> 
> In the new poll, just over nine in 10 Americans now say that the outbreak has disrupted their daily routine, showing the reach of the pandemic's impact. Among those saying this, 44% said they think they will be able to resume their regular routine by June 1, including 13% who said by May 1, while a combined 84% believe that will happen by the end of the summer.

`/u/intelligentsia78` comments:

> My workplace (approx 600 employees) has been fully remote since early March. We were supposed to be going back to the office May 1, just this morning they announced a tentative return date of mid July - at best.

`/u/oldcreaker` comments:

> So many Americans are just one paycheck from disaster - and millions now have neither a job or a paycheck this week. Or the next. Or the next. Many of these people will never get back to "normal".

## "Dr. Fauci says the U.S. is 'Not even at halftime' in fight against coronavirus"

[Original article, Newsweek](https://www.newsweek.com/fauci-coronavirus-u-s-battle-coach-k-1495918)

**Again, it's important to remember that this coronavirus pandemic is nowhere near over. *Please* watch as much Netflix, play as many video games, read as many books, perform as many pushups, do whatever you can to keep yourself entertained and healthy while staying at home!**

Summarizing quote:

> Dr. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), has admitted the U.S. is "not even at half-time" in the fight against coronavirus and that more time is required for the country to turn the corner against the pandemic.

`/u/NerveConductionPuppy` comments:

> The numbers don't even feel real anymore. I checked this morning and it's around 1,026,000 cases. Yesterday we hit 1,000,000 and I thought "huh not bad 'only' 26,000 overnight", then realized that's a quarter of the city I live in. Scary.

## "Asia may have been right about coronavirus and face masks, and the rest of the world is coming around"

[Original article, CNN](https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/01/asia/coronavirus-mask-messaging-intl-hnk/index.html) **Added 1:34pm!**

**It feels especially bad because I have been facing social stigma when it comes to wearing masks since the coronavirus emerged in January. Hopefully, companies like IKEA can produce the medical masks that *everyone* needs.**

Summarizing quotes:

> In the coming weeks, if they have not already, your government is likely to begin advising you to wear a face mask to protect against coronavirus.
> 
> For those living in Asia, such announcements will be a vindication of a tactic that has been adopted across much of the region since the beginning of the crisis and appears to have been borne out by lower rates of infection and faster containment of outbreaks.
> 
> In other parts of the world, this message may be confusing, coming after weeks of public health authorities, politicians and media figures confidently claiming masks do not help and urging people instead to focus on washing their hands and maintaining social distancing.
The tone of such claims ranged from condescending to frustrated, with the US Surgeon General Jerome Adams tweeting in late February -- in all caps -- "STOP BUYING MASKS!" 

## Table of contents

- [Bay Area Residents Recommended to Wear Cloth Face Coverings When Outside]() Added 1:34pm!
- [Asia may have been right about coronavirus and face masks, and the rest of the world is coming around]() Added 1:34pm!
- [Good news first: "HBO Will Stream 500 Hours of Free Programming, Including Full Seasons of 'Veep,' 'The Sopranos,' 'Silicon Valley'"]()
- [

